Example 2 - Show a grammar and theme
====================================

This example shows a an simple component that loads a single external grammar and external theme file.

When running this sample you should copy the HTML.tmLanguage and SpaceCadet.tmTheme files to the 
current path of the executable. Or change the filename in the sample.


example2.cpp
------------


First we initialize the edbee instance. 

```C++
edbee::Edbee* edbee = edbee::Edbee::instance();
edbee->autoInit();
```

After that we're going to read the grammar file.
Loading a grammar requires the grammar-manager. The reason for it is that Textmate grammars can include eachother.
For example you can have a javascript grammar inside a html grammar.

```C++
edbee::TextGrammarManager* grammarManager = edbee->grammarManager();
edbee::TextGrammar* grammar = grammarManager->readGrammarFile( "HTML.tmLanguage" );
```

Then we load the theme via the theme manager.

```C++
edbee::TextThemeManager* themeManager = edbee->themeManager();
edbee::TextTheme* theme = themeManager->readThemeFile( "SpaceCadet.tmTheme" );
```

Then the grammar and theme are passed to the editor. 

As you can see the editor is split up in seperate classes. The current grammar is configured via the textDocument. The scopes generated by the grammar are document related. 
The theme is used by renderer, so the theme is supplied to the active renderer.

```C++
editor.textDocument()->setLanguageGrammar( grammar );
editor.textRenderer()->setTheme( theme );
```

In this example the text is simply set with the following hardcoded string:

```C++
editor.textDocument()->setText("<html>\n\t<body>\n\t\t<h1>Hello World</h1>\n\t</body>\n</html>\n");
```

The rest is boilerplate to set the widget and show it :)



Notes
-----

Another way to supply grammar and theme files is to use the following methods to supply the paths that contain the grammar and theme files.
The grammar files are loaded on edbee initialisation the theme files are loaded on demand.

```C++
    void setGrammarPath( const QString& grammarPath );
    void setThemePath( const QString& themePath );
```

